Initial Marketplace docs (#185)
mautic/mautic-documentation: pages/28.Marketplace/default.en.md

---
title: 'Marketplace'
slug: marketplace
twitterenable: true
twittercardoptions: summary
articleenabled: false
orgaenabled: false
orga:
    ratingValue: 2.5
orgaratingenabled: false
personenabled: false
facebookenable: true
---

> *Mautic 4 comes with new Marketplace. In the initial release there is just plugin browser. The install an update features will be added in the future feature releases as it depends on the new Composer v2 support and new file structure.*

Author: Are the 3 dashes in the suggested line 15 required? They are already in the current line 13.

> *Mautic 4 comes with new Marketplace. In the initial release there is just plugin browser. The install an update features will be added in the future feature releases as it depends on the new Composer v2 support and new file structure.*

Reviewer: Sorry pressed the wrong button! 

Yes they are required to add the horizontal line after the title when using the docs layout.

**Warning**

*The first marketplace version does not check for Mautic version compatibility yet as it requires change in each existing plugin, so please do not blindly manually install plugins you see there. Always check youself if they support your Mautic version.*

### List of plugins

The list of plugins is accessible from your Mautic administration menu. Click the cog icon in the top right hand corner to display the admin menu.

> The list view allows you to search for specific keywords. It displays quick stats of how many times a plugin was downloaded and how many stars it has in [Packagist](https://packagist.org). It also shows the vendor who has developed the plugin. Sadly, the sorting by columns is not available at the moment because it's not supported by the Packagist API.

Author: How does the Markdown parser know what `[packagist]` link means?

> The list view allows you to search for specific keywords. It displays quick stats of how many times a plugin was downloaded and how many stars it has in [Packagist](https://packagist.org). It also shows the vendor who has developed the plugin. Sadly, the sorting by columns is not available at the moment because it's not supported by the Packagist API.

Reviewer: This is a standard feature of Markdown using [link macros](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links). I added the macros at the bottom of the page.

#### GitHub Info

[GitHub](https://github.com) is a social network for developers. The majority of Mautic plugins is available on GitHub. There are some quick stats available directly in this section but you can find much more if you follow the link to the repository.

#### Packagist Info

[Packagist](https://packagist.org) is a PHP package repository. It's not related specifically to the Mautic community but to PHP community. All the PHP packages listed in Packagist are installable by [Composer](https://getcomposer.org) which is a tool for dependency management which is used under the hood when you install a Mautic plugin. Packagist section shows download stats of how many the plugin has been installed in different timeframes.

#### Context menu

The context menu shows actions you can take.
- Close will take you to the List View
- Install will install the plugin
- Issue Tracker will open a new window with the issue tracker. It will show up only if the plugin has this information available. Use this option to search for issues with the pluin and report new ones.

![Marketplace detail](marketplace-detail.png)

### CLI command

> The marketplace has commands that can be handy for those who prefer CLI over UI or for some automations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Marketplace has commands that can be used by those who prefer using the command line to the user interface, or for some automations.
```

> #### List plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### List Plugins
```

> `bin/console mautic:marketplace:list` will list first page of available plugins like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`bin/console mautic:marketplace:list` will list first page of available Plugins like so:
```

```
+-------------------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+

> | name                                                  | downloads | favers |

Reviewer: Github refers to the count of folk having starred a repo as 'stargazers' - favers did not make sense really. Could also call it 'likes' but that does not correlate too well with GH?

```suggestion
| name                                                  | downloads | stargazers |
```

Author: favers is the original term used by Packagist. Do we want to rename it?

Reviewer: Ah OK - it just doesn't seem to make sense to me, like, it's not really a word. If that is what they call people who have starred a repo I guess we keep it?

| thedmsgroup/mautic-contact-source-bundle              | 2852      | 43     |
|     Creates API endpoints for receiving contacts from |           |        |
|     external sources.                                 |           |        |
| thedmsgroup/mautic-contact-client-bundle              | 4035      | 70     |
|     Create custom integrations without writing code.  |           |        |
| thedmsgroup/mautic-campaign-watch-bundle              | 1817      | 14     |
|     Visual improvements for campaigns.                |           |        |
| raow/mautic-rss-to-email-bundle                       | 971       | 69     |
| mtcextendee/mautic-random-smtp-bundle                 | 101       | 10     |
| kuzmany/mautic-recommender-bundle                     | 250       | 30     |
| kuzmany/mautic-custom-tags-bundle                     | 119       | 20     |
| dazzle/mautic-sendinblue-bundle                       | 73        | 5      |
|     Allows to send E-mails with Sendinblue            |           |        |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
Total packages: 69
Execution time: 388 ms
```

> There are options that will allow you to filter or go to next pages. The full list will show up when you add `--help` after the command as you are used to in other Mautic commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are options that will allow you to filter or go to next pages. The full list will show up when you add `--help` after the command, as used in other Mautic commands.
```

```
  -p, --page[=PAGE]      Page number [default: 1]
  -l, --limit[=LIMIT]    Packages per page [default: 15]
  -f, --filter[=FILTER]  Filter the packages [default: ""]
  -h, --help             Display this help message
```

> Example usage how to search for Captcha plugin: `bin/console mautic:marketplace:list --filter=captcha`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example usage how to search for Captcha Plugin: `bin/console mautic:marketplace:list --filter=captcha`
```

> ### Planned Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Planned features
```

> The Marketplace is lacking some important features. In the text above there are mentions of several planned features in cursiva. Most of the features are waiting for Mautic 4 release and it's main features (Composer v2 support, new directory structure) and therefore can be developed when all these features will come together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Marketplace is lacking some important features. In the text above there are mentions of several planned features. Most of the features are waiting for the Mautic 4 release and its main features (Composer v2 support, new directory structure) and therefore can be developed when all these features come together.
```

> - Mautic version compatibility check. The Marketplace should tell you whether a plugin is compatible with your Mautic installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Mautic version compatibility check. The Marketplace should tell you whether a Plugin is compatible with your Mautic installation,
```

> - Installation via CLI and UI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Installation via CLI and UI,
```

> - Update of installed plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update of installed Plugins,
```

> - Automatic plugin updates. There will be configuration that will allow you to set globally whether you want to automatically upgrade plugins and also posibility to set that on per plugin bases. Automatic upgrades make sense only for bug fix releases. Other releases are too risky and should be handled manually. [API reference](https://packagist.org/apidoc#track-package-updates)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Automatic Plugin updates - there will be configuration that will allow you to set globally whether you want to automatically upgrade Plugins and also have the possibility of configuring this at the plugin level. Automatic upgrades make sense only for bug fix releases. Other releases are too risky and should be handled manually. [API reference][track-updates]
```

> - List security advisories. [API reference](https://packagist.org/apidoc#list-security-advisories)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- List security advisories [API reference][advisories],
```

> - Notifications about new versions and found security vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Notifications about new versions and security vulnerabilities that have been identified,
```

> - Support also theme installations and updates.

Reviewer: ^ This change was not committed in the PR. Adding another PR to add the link macros.

|     Allows to send E-mails with Sendinblue            |           |        |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
Total packages: 69
Execution time: 388 ms
```

There are options that will allow you to filter or go to next pages. The full list will show up when you add `--help` after the command, as used in other Mautic commands.

```
  -p, --page[=PAGE]      Page number [default: 1]
  -l, --limit[=LIMIT]    Packages per page [default: 15]
  -f, --filter[=FILTER]  Filter the packages [default: ""]
  -h, --help             Display this help message
```

Example usage how to search for Captcha Plugin: `bin/console mautic:marketplace:list --filter=captcha`

### Planned features

The Marketplace is lacking some important features. In the text above there are mentions of several planned features. Most of the features are waiting for the Mautic 4 release and its main features (Composer v2 support, new directory structure) and therefore can be developed when all these features come together.

- Mautic version compatibility check. The Marketplace should tell you whether a Plugin is compatible with your Mautic installation,

> - Installation via CLI and UI,

Reviewer: Suggestion from Vale linter

```suggestion
- Installation via command line and user interface,
```
